---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Switchboard
keywords:
  [Switchboard, web3, oracle, data feeds, vrf, randomness, solana, aptos, near]
---

# Synopsis

A blockchain is a deterministic, decentralized network of computers that
computes and stores data in a shared ledger. This suggests that blockchain nodes
are limited to reaching consensus on simple binary questions using data stored
on the blockchain. Hence, blockchains are isolated networks where it cannot
access information outside of its own network.

Enter Oracles -- essentially acts as a "bridge" to connect smart contracts on
blockchains to the off-chain world.

## About Switchboard

In the traditional context of telecommunications, a switchboard is a device
which consists of physical hardware such as series of sockets, cords, plugs and
switches. A human operator would manually plug in cords to establish connections
between callers to allow communication.

Introducing Switchboard, in the context of blockchains, we have taken on the
metaphorical meaning of traditional switchboard systems where Switchboard acts
as a "bridge" to enable smart contracts to connect to off-chain data,
computations, randomness and more.

# Oracle Problem

In order to plug in data from off-chain to smart contracts, oracles take on the
responsibility to ensure data correctness, uptime and trustlessness.

## How does traditional oracle systems work?

Let's dive into some of the commonly seen representation of oracles.

### Single party trust model

A single party trust model is unacceptable as it reduces the trust model of the
application down to the trust in the oracle. To put it simply, if the oracle
fails to propagate, the application fails entirely. This is similar to a
protocol's self-provisioned internal oracle system where it relies on a single,
centralized oracle.

![Single Party Diagram](/img/data/singleparty.svg)

### Multiparty trust model

A multiparty trust model prevents a single point of failure and introduces a
consensus mechanism to allow oracles to come to an agreement on 1 final result.
For example, oracles fetch the data of BTC and a median is calculated to report
back as final result.

However, if we introduce a multiparty trust model, oracles can still report
dishonestly if there is no stake to lose.

![Multi Party Diagram](/img/data/multiparty.svg)

### Stake-weighted multiparty trust model

Today, most oracle protocols achieve consensus using some form of economic
security where oracles are required a stake before participation. On every
response, if an oracle deviates by X% from the accepted result, their stake is
taken by the protocol and could no longer report.

This is great. Hypothetically, if the oracle stake is $1 million, and the
downstream application has less than $1 million of total value involved, it is
confident to say that all oracles have no misalignment of incentives to collude
and conduct any malicious acts.

Now , we have 2 persisting problems in all oracle protocols to date:

- **High infrastructure cost**: Requiring each oracle to stake $1 million limits
  the scalability of delivering information on-chain.

- **Misalignment of incentives**: If the total value involved of the downstream
  applications are greate than the oracles' allocated stake, how can we still
  ensure oracles are not incentivized to collude?

![Stake Weighted Multi Party Diagram](/img/data/stake-weighted-multiparty.svg)

# Switchboard Solution

Enter Switchboard V3 -- a stake weighted multiparty trust model of classical
oracle protocols combined with a new TEE-as-a-primitive toolkit developed
in-house.

## What are TEEs?

TEE (Trusted Execution Environment) is a secure environment isolated from the
rest of the system, where sensitive code can be executed and sensitive data can
be processed with additional protection against unauthorized access or
modification.

In simple terms, given a program and an input, TEEs can execute and generate an
output along with a proof.

## How does Switchboard solve the oracle problem?

In the context of oracles, by introducing TEEs on top of stake weighted
multiparty oracle protocols, Switchboard is able to verify each oracle's
software to allow particpation and its executions to prevent from acting
dishonestly.

- **Verifiable code execution**: Requires a lower stake based operational cost
  for oracles.

- **Alignment of incentives**: If an oracle operator acts maliciously and
  attempts to change the operation of the approved code, a quote verification
  will fail.

Switchboard oracles are now verifiable and has an aligned incentive, this allows
the oracles to operate beyond quantitative value reporting, such as functions --
running off-chain custom and confidential computations.

# Overview of Documentation

Through this documentation, you should learn about these components before
integrating.

- V3 Architecture
- Switchboard Attestation Program
- Oracle Data Pipelines
- Switchboard Tools
  - Functions
  - Data Feeds
  - Randomness
