---
keywords:
  [Switchboard, web3, oracle, data feeds, vrf, randomness, solana, aptos, near]
---

# The Oracle Program

The Switchboard oracle program (or previously referred to as Switchboard V2) is
the core Switchboard contract which enables on-chain resources, like
[Data Feeds (or Aggregators)](/data-feeds) or [Randomness](/randomness), to
request off-chain updates from a round-robin queue of oracles who are required
to heartbeat periodically to signal readiness.

## Oracle Queues

Each oracle queue in the Switchboard network is independent and maintain their
own configurations which influences its level of security. This design choice
enables users to tailor the oracle queue's behavior to match their specific use
case.

### Oracle Assignment

The Switchboard Network employs a round-robin approach to assign update requests
to oracles. This section explains the key aspects of this method and its
benefits for the network.

#### Heartbeat Requirement

Oracles are required to periodically heartbeat on-chain before the
`queue.oracleTimeout` to signal their readiness. If an oracle fails to heartbeat
within this time frame, it will be temporarily removed from the queue and won't
be assigned any update requests until it successfully heartbeats again.

The queue utilizes `queue.gcIdx` to track its garbage collection index. If an
oracle fails to send a heartbeat before `queue.oracleTimeout`, it is removed
from the queue until it sends a successful heartbeat again. This process ensures
that only active oracles are assigned resource update requests.

#### Round-Robin Assignment

Update requests are assigned to oracles in a round-robin fashion, ensuring a
fair distribution of tasks among oracles. Aggregators or data feeds can specify
the number of oracles (N) required for each request. The system will then assign
the next N oracles in the queue to fulfill the request. If there are not enough
oracles in the queue, the update request will fail.

#### Periodic Swapping of Oracle Positions

To provide an element of unpredictability and mitigate the risk of oracles being
assigned the same update requests in every iteration, oracle positions in the
queue are periodically swapped. This helps to further distribute tasks fairly
and enhances the overall security of the network.

### Access Control

The Switchboard Network provides flexible access control options for each oracle
queue, allowing queue operators to define whether data consumers need
pre-approval or whether any requester can access the queue. This feature allows
users to maintain control over their data resources and the level of security
they require.

:::note

Oracles are _**always**_ required to be granted `PermitOracleHeartbeat`
permissions before joining a queue.

With Switchboard V3 oracles are pre-approved as long as they verify their
MRENCLAVE measurements proving they are running a given software baseline within
a trusted execution environment.

:::

### Economic Security

Economic incentives are employed to encourage oracles to act honestly and
provide accurate data. These incentives form the basis of the queue's security
model and include:

- **Reward**: The number of tokens an oracle or crank turner receives for
  successfully completing an on-chain action
- **Slashing**: Discouraging oracles from responding to update requests outside
  a set margin of error
- **Minimum Stake**: Oracles are required to stake a minimum amount of capital
  to give them skin in the game.

These economic measures help ensure that the oracles in the network provide
reliable data and contribute to the overall security of the system.

### Governance

Oracle queues can be governed by network participants to control various queue
configuration parameters, such as `queue.minStake`, `queue.reward`,
`queue.slashingEnabled`, and permitting new oracles to join the network.
Governance can be achieved through a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO)
or other mechanisms, allowing the community to have a say in the network's
operation.

By understanding and leveraging the features of independent oracle queues, users
can customize the Switchboard Network to meet their specific requirements and
achieve the desired level of security.
