---
keywords:
  [Switchboard, web3, oracle, data feeds, vrf, randomness, solana, aptos, near]
---

# Randomness

:::info

Switchboard VRF is only supported on Solana.

Solana Programs relying on randomness should start migrating to
[Switchboard Functions](/functions) as it is more flexible on takes a single
transaction.

:::

While true-randomness on some computers can be made possible via atmospheric
noise and special hardware modules, such solutions on blockchains are not
possible since they are virtual machines without physical hardware. Thus,
pseudorandom-functions are needed to close this gap. **_You should be skeptical
of teams claiming they offer true randomness._**

Random numbers are crucial for many DeFi applications whether its fair NFT
launches, gambling, gaming, or assigning user roles in a DAO. Without an element
of randomness, each of the above could be exploited and the final outcome
predicted.

A Verifiable Random Function (VRF) is a public-key pseudorandom function that
provides proofs that its outputs were calculated correctly. This means we can
use a cryptographic keypair to generate a random number with a proof, which can
then be validated by anyone to ensure the value was calculated correctly without
the possibility of leaking the producerâ€™s secret key. You can read more about
VRF from the Algorand team, whose founder was one of the authors on the original
VRF paper -
[Algorand Releases First Open Source Code of Verifiable Random Functions](https://medium.com/algorand/algorand-releases-first-open-source-code-of-verifiable-random-function-93c2960abd61).

## Solana Implementation

Switchboard's VRF implementation uses the oracle authority secret key to publish
the VRF proof on-chain. The on-chain proof verification is very computationally
expensive and requires 276 instructions on-chain to fully verify. Once the proof
is submitted on-chain anyone can turn the VRF crank to produce the pseduorandom
result, although for simplicity and speed the Switchboard oracle that submitted
the proof also submits the verification instructions.

The final proof verification instruction invokes the VRF Account's specified
callback, which allows developers to integrate pseduorandomness into their
applications and be confident they are consuming the latest pseduorandom result.

## Functions

[Switchboard Functions](/functions) can generate randomness within the enclave.
While this is not a true Verifiable Randomness Function, it is verifiable
because the code being run within the enclave can be verified.
